# Battle at the Citadel

A shower of arrows rain on the citadel for several days on both sides. However, the supply line for the citadel is diminishing and cut off. A squad of Nanyue soldiers are walking away from the front lines. Feng, one of Zhao Tuo's lieutenants, senses something wrong with this, because protocol dictates that only messengers and senior-led squads are allowed to walk back. He instructs his own squads to arrest them for abandoning the front. The squad, it turns out, were Au Lac warriors in disguise. Having their cover blown, they begin to fight and try to take down as many Nanyue soldiers as they can, until they were all killed.

A Nanyue company begin to breach the northern walls. Thuc Phan plans an escape by horseback, and does not inform his rank and file, except the most trusted leadership (otherwise they would just run, whereas he needs them to distract the Nanyue soldiers while he escapes). A platoon escapes through the south, leaving behind the rest to continue to defend a falling line.

# Trail of Feathers

Nanyue soldiers fan and spread out in all directions in order to locate the Au Lac king. Zhong Shi is part of this search, having a vested interest in finding Mỵ Châu. A company of Au Lac warriors engage the Nanyue who are hunting them. One platoon that Mỵ Châu is a part of, has some anti-Au Lac members. Although they have never seen Mỵ Châu before, they discover that she is among them, and resolve to kill her and place the blame on the Nanyue. As soon as one Nanyue platoon engage, these anti-Au Lac warriors take the opportunity to kill everyone surrounding Mỵ Châu. She fights them off, save for one who is about to kill her, but she is saved by Cao, whom she raised at the orphanage/school along with Zhong Shi as one of their first students. Except, Cao is dressed as a Nanyue. Not sure if Cao is friend or foe, Mỵ Châu, keeping a crossbow aimed at him, listens to Cao's plea that Zhong Shi is looking for her. She let's Cao go, and tells him to inform Zhong Shi that she wants to hear straight from him whether he knew of this war, or even participated in its orchestration. Cao, asking how he'll find her, is told that Zhong Shi will know (i.e. the trail of feathers).

# Execution

Thuc Phan is at the edge of the waters, trying to make sense of all that has happened. He is angry. An illusory vision of Kim Quy speaks to him. Thuc Phan asks for help. Kim Quy cannot help him recover the kingdom. However, the one thing Kim Quy can help with, however, is to identify the person who has been leading the Nanyue soldiers in thwarting their escape plans. It is Mỵ Châu, leaving behind a trail of feathers. Thuc Phan is in disbelief. He summons Mỵ Châu. Instead of accusing her immediately, he asks for Mỵ Châu's feathered cape, and says that it is necessary to appease the gods by burning it as a sacrifice. She refuses at first. Thuc Phan, angry, demands to know why she is refusing. She says it's a gift from Zhong Shi, whom she still loves. Thuc Phan then accuses her of using the feathers to leave a trail for the Nanyue soldiers to locate them. She is silent in response, and doesn't refute the statement, nor does she confirm it. Her head hangs low with shame. Thuc Phan is in anguish, for silence was a kind of confession of her crimes. Mỵ Châu cries that she loves Zhong Shi. And she hates Zhong Shi as well. Thuc Phan asks one more time to have Mỵ Châu hand over her cape. She still refuses. Angry, Thuc Phan denounces her as a traitor, for both failing to be an effective spy on her husband, and for abetting the enemy by informing them of their escape. A few warriors come at the behest of Thuc Phan and tie her up. The most senior warriors are invited to bear witness. Her crimes are announced. She is given one more chance to make a statement, a chance to refute her crimes. She lifts her head, and tells them, that she is guilty for falling in love. No one in the leadership raise their voice to stop the trial. The best warrior among them begin the execution ceremony, a dance between life and death. Mỵ Châu is then beheaded.

# March of Sorrow

Zhong Shi finds the lifeless body of Mỵ Châu. He doesn't cry or wail. He is in shock. Zhong Shi instructs the soldiers to help arrange a caravan to bring her body back to Co Loa. An injured Au Lac warrior who was left behind, is brought before Cao and Zhong Shi to explain what happened to her. The warrior tells them that it was Thuc Phan, out of outrage of discovering Mỵ Châu's betrayal—helping the enemy by leaving a trail of feathers—ordered her execution. Zhong Shi realizes that, in some ways, it was his fault. He becomes catatonic. Cao takes over command the platoon and leads them back to Co Loa. As her body is returned, a number of Au Lac survivors, mostly women, cry over Mỵ Châu's death. They conduct a funeral. Zhong Shi still doesn't cry.

# Mirror of Life

Zhong Shi falls into the river. His soul becomes separated from his body. His soul wanders the maternal waters, what we call the lifestream, looking for Mỵ Châu. He comes across children he raised at the orphanage, who now want to hurt him, as their last memories in life were that of feeling betrayed. He dodges and evades them, until he comes many children who seem both unfamiliar and familiar to him. They surround Mỵ Châu, calling her mother, and asking who this man is. She tells them that he is their father. He realizes these are his children, though died by miscarriage. The youngest one, however, died while still in womb. The children dance and circle him, having never known hatred, especially to their father, and he begins to cry with pain and happiness. As the children run off to play, Mỵ Châu faces Zhong Shi. She attempts to choke him with her hands. He strokes her cheek while in tears. She steps back confused. She loves and hates him. He takes her hand, and the two dance in the ebb and flow of life.

# Epilogue

Mạt, a young boy, arrives at a marked mound, accompanied by his aunt Mỵ Lan. Mạt removes a pearl pendant from his neck and gives it to Mỵ Lan. She washes it with a bottle of water drawn from the pool where Zhong Shi had committed suicide. She explains the pearl is from the sea near where his mother died, and the water is from where his father had died. She gives it back to Mạt, and they clasp hands in prayer. Mỵ Lan suggests to Mạt that the pearl appears a bit brighter, due to the love between his parents. Mạt agrees somewhat, though of little comfort. Mạt enters a conversation with his mother, telling her he's taken up archery. He apologizes for the orphanages that have closed over the years, with no one to look after them.
